SUMO-242752 | Changes in IIS otel app to add metric collection and dashboards (#4579)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/integrations/web-servers/opentelemetry/iis-10-opentelemetry.md

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/microsoft_iis_10.png')} alt="thumbnail icon" width="130"/> <img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/otel-color.svg')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="45"/>

> The [Internet Information Services](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/iis/get-started/introduction-to-iis/introduction-to-iis-architecture) (IIS) 10 app is a logs and metrics app that helps you monitor your IIS web servers' availability. Preconfigured dashboards and searches provide insight into application pools, ASP.NET applications, requests, latency, visitor locations, visitor access types, traffic patterns, errors, web server operations, and access from known malicious sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Internet Information Services](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/iis/get-started/introduction-to-iis/introduction-to-iis-architecture) (IIS) 10 app is a logs and metrics app designed to monitor the availability and performance of your IIS web servers. Preconfigured dashboards and searches provide insight into application pools, ASP.NET applications, requests, latency, visitor locations, visitor access types, traffic patterns, errors, web server operations, and access from known malicious sources.
```

Reviewer 2: @sumoanema Can you also add the new dashboard information in this description.

Author: This description already has the info for all the dashboard which I have added now.

IIS logs are sent to Sumo Logic through OpenTelemetry [filelog receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/filelogreceiver).

IIS metrics are sent to Sumo Logic through OpenTelemetry through [windowsperfcountersreceiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/windowsperfcountersreceiver). This receiver, captures the configured system, application, or custom performance counter data from the Windows registry using the [PDH interface](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/perfctrs/using-the-pdh-functions-to-consume-counter-data). It is based on the [Telegraf Windows Performance Counters Input Plugin](https://github.com/influxdata/telegraf/tree/master/plugins/inputs/win_perf_counters).

> <img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/IIS-OpenTelemetry/IIS-Schematics.png' alt="Schematics" />

Reviewer 2: Make sure the image is updated with Metrics information.

The **IIS - Visitor Traffic Insight** Dashboard provides detailed information on the top documents accessed, top referrers, top search terms from popular search engines, and the media types served.

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/IIS-OpenTelemetry/IIS-Visitor-Traffic-Insights.png' alt="Visitor Traffic Insights" />

### Application Pool

The **IIS - Application Pool** dashboard provides a high-level view of Application Pool State, Information and Worker Process Metrics.

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/IIS-OpenTelemetry/IIS-Application-Pool.png' alt="IIS-Application-Pool" />

### ASP.NET

> The **IIS - ASP.NET** dashboard provides a high-level view of the ASP.NET global performance counters. This dashboard helps you to analyse the state server sessions, monitor applications information, and understand the request execution and wait time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **IIS - ASP.NET** dashboard provides a high-level view of the ASP.NET global performance counters. This dashboard helps you to analyse the state server sessions, monitor applications performance, and understand the request execution and wait time.
```

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/IIS-OpenTelemetry/IIS-ASP.NET.png' alt="IIS-ASP.NET" />

### ASP.NET Applications

The **IIS - ASP.NET Applications** dashboard provides a high-level view of the ASP.NET application performance counters. This dashboard helps you to monitor compilations, errors, cache, requests executing, requests in application queue, pipeline instance count, and output cache.

<img src='https://sumologic-app-data-v2.s3.amazonaws.com/dashboards/IIS-OpenTelemetry/IIS-ASP.NET-Applications.png' alt="IIS-ASP.NET-Applications" />

### Cache Performance

> The **IIS - Cache Performance** dashboard provides a high-level view of the the Web Service Cache Counters object includes cache counters specific to the World Wide Web Publishing Service. This dashboard helps you to monitor the output cahce, cache memory, file cache, and URI cache.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **IIS - Cache Performance** dashboard provides a high-level view of the the Web Service Cache Counters object includes cache counters specific to the World Wide Web Publishing Service. This dashboard helps you to monitor the output cache, cache memory, file cache, and URI cache.
```
